---
layout: post
title: z
date: 2013-05-07
---

[z](https://github.com/rupa/z) is a utility that allows you to jump around your machine very quickly. It allows you
to change directory by specifying a partial path and it will choose the most relevant one based on your directory
history automatically. It uses an algorithm that's based on "frecency". Directories are ranked by how frequently you
visit them, and how recently the last visit was.

It's a bit tough to explain, so here's an example. I spend most of my time working in three directories:

* /var/www/example.com/main/src/application
* /var/www/example.com/main/src/tests
* ~/testing/storyplayer/main/src/

Instead of typing `cd /var/www/example.com/main/src/application` every time I want to work on "example.com", I just
need to `cd` into it once, and it will add it to my list of visited paths in `z`. The next time I want to work in that
folder, I can just type `z example` and it will jump to the correct path.

Where it gets tricky is when I mean to go to `/var/www/example.com/main/src/tests`, but `z` thinks I want to go to the
application folder. Fortunately, `z` lets you specify multiple search values, so if I type `z example` and it takes me to
the application folder, I can just type `z example test` to jump to the tests folder.

If you try and move to a directory that doesn't exist, then `z` just won't do anything.

{% highlight bash %}
# We want to work on "example.com"
vagrant:~$ z example

# We didn't mean the application (even though we normally do)
# So let's change to the tests directory
vagrant:/var/www/example.com/main/src/application$ z example test

# You don't have to specify a full word, just the shortest 
# string that will match will do
vagrant:/var/www/example.com/main/src/test$ z storypl

# Let's try and change to a directory that we've neven been to
vagrant:~/testing/storyplayer/main/src$ z foobar

# Nothing happened, we're still in Storyplayer
vagrant:~/testing/storyplayer/main/src$ ​

{% endhighlight %}

### Links

[z on Github](https://github.com/rupa/z)

