---
layout: post
title: Vim Tips
date: 2013-08-21
---

I've been using vim for a while now, but with Vim being Vim, there's always new things to learn. Thanks to [Jacek](http://artymiak.com/), I've learned a few more things recently.

### S to change a line
Whenever I wanted to change an entire line before, I used to use `0c$` (go to the beginning of the line and change everything to the end). Since I learned about `S` which does the same thing, I've been trying to use it. Muscle memory's difficult to break though, so I'm still stuck using `0c$`, but I'm trying to use `S` more.

### | to go to a column
When working Google Bigquery, if the data provided did not fit the schema it returned an error with the line and column that it found an error on. I used to use `<num>gg` to jump to the correct line, and then a combination of `w` and `h`/`l` to get the correct column. As it turns out, you can use `<num>|` to jump directly to a column. So, to jump to line 29, column 33 we'd use `29gg33|`.

### Ctrl+f to move down a page
Whilst most of the navigating I do whilst inside a file in `vim` is done via searching (e.g. `/searchterm`), sometimes it's useful to scan through a file to get a feeling of how it's structured. Previously, I just kept my finger on `j` to scroll through the file. `ctrl+f` is a much more efficient way to page through the file, one screen at a time.

### :%! to run an external program
To run the contents of your buffer through an external program, you can use `:%!<program>`. For example, to reformat the current buffer to wrap at 80 characters, we can use the `fmt` command line utility. To use it through vim, we type `:%!fmt -80`. The % is a normal vim selector, so you could use `:.!fmt -80` fo reformat just the current line, or `:.,+5!fmt -80` to reformat the next five lines (including the current one).

