---
title: wiki
layout: post
date: 2015-10-19
---

Wiki is a command line tool to fetch summaries from any Mediawiki wiki. By default, it searches the English language version of Wikipedia.

To use `wiki`, you’ll need a working [golang install](/environment/golang)

You can install `wiki` with `go get`, which will download and compile the go code.
{% highlight bash %}
go get github.com/walle/wiki/cmd/wiki
{% endhighlight %}

Once we have it installed, we can take a look at the `help` page for the tool. There’s lots of options available, allowing you to change language, show short summaries only and ignore HTTPS verification.

{% highlight bash %}
wiki --help
wiki is a tool used to fetch excerpts from wikipedia
Usage: wiki [options...] query
Options:

  -h=false: Print help information and exit.
  -l="en": The language to use
  -n=false: If the output should not be colorized
  -no-check-certificate=false: Skip verification of certificates
  -s=false: If simple output should be used
  -short=false: If short output should be used
  -u="https://%s.wikipedia.org/w/api.php": The api url
  -version=false: Print version information and exit.
{% endhighlight %}

<hr />

Personally, I like to use it with the `short` flag to get a brief description of what I’m looking for:

{% highlight bash %}
$ wiki -short unix
Unix (all-caps UNIX for the trademark) is a family of multitasking, multiuser computer 
operating systems that derive from the original AT&T Unix, developed in the 1970s at 
the Bell Labs research centre by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others.
{% endhighlight %}

`wiki` is a very specific tool, but it’s one that will come in very useful when I want to look something up but don’t want to fall into the trap of reading Wikipedia for hours.
